Here we are back in our application.
Lets open the BookService file.
Here you can see we’ve hardcoded some books.
What we want to do instead is grab all the
books located in our books.json file here.
Quick note here, please make sure download
the separate books.json file located in the
resources folder and add it here.
The first thing we’ll do is import http
from angular/http.
Next we’ll open up the app.module file and
import HttpModule and then add it to our list
of imports.
And I’ll also make sure to import Observable
from rxjs as well.
The first thing I’ll do here is inside the
constructor and we’ll include a private
variable of underscore http assigned to the
Http instance.
I’ll change this IBook declaration to be
an Observable array of type IBook.
Then remove the hardcoded data.
Then I can say return dot this _http.
Referencing our variable, then dot get and
pass in the location of our file in relation
to our index.html file.
So its located api/books/books.json.
Then we need to format the data a little before
giving it to the component.
To do so, we’ll use the map operator, so
we’ll say dot map – and here we need to
actually import map from rxjs in order to
use this method.
So we’ll add an import statement for the
method above.
And then down below we pass in a parameter
representing the data.
So we’ll say response.
Now we ask the question what is the Type of
this response?
Since we’re getting back more then just
the data, for example we’re also getting
header information along with the status,
we should use Angular’s built-in Response
interface, which is located in the same folder
as Http.
Then we take our response, make sure its turned
into JSON and is of type IBook.
So this is all we need to do in order to retrieve
data and pass it along to our component.
We will be adding some error handling here
in the next lecture but first, lets see how
to see display this data in our component.
Opening up our books-list component file.
I’ll first remove our call to getBooks from
the constructor.
Now, I want the data to appear as the page
is loaded.
The convention is to put service related logic
inside of the ngOnInit lifecycle hook.
So we’ll first add OnInit after Component,
then say BooksListComponent implements OnInit.
And add the ngOnInit hook after our constructor.
I’m going to add inside of these curly’s
a method to getBooks that will be defined
below.
Then we’ll create our method called getBooks.
This method will then call the getBooks method
on bookService to retrieve all the books from
our JSON file.
If all these ‘getBooks’ are confusing,
you can name this something different like
getAllBooks, but I’m just going to leave
it as getBooks for now.
And the last step here is we need to subscribe
to Observable using dot subscribe.
Then passing in a parameter that represents
the data we get back.
The name here can be anything you want, but
in this case we’ll say books then arrow
function, this.books equals books.
This might look weird also, but all we’re
doing is taking the response and setting it
equal to our books property right here.
This would work the same if we changed books
to response.
Lastly, we need to add another parameter to
subscribe in case there is an error.
So we’ll say error then arrow function this.errorMessage
equals an error of type any.
Then set up a property of errorMessage to
type string.
Now, lets load up our app and see the results
so far.
So we’re now looping through each one of
the books in our API and that’s good, but
it looks pretty broke.
There’s 2 thing we need to do to fix this.
First we need to change the properties in
our IBook interface file to reflect that of
our API.
You can copy this over now or just download
the file.
And second, we need to edit our booksList
HTML file to reflect the properties of our
API.
See if you can make the correct changes here
yourself.
The answer will be in the next video.